Welcome to Hotwire, an umbrella
for trio frameworks that
implement the HTML-over-the-wire
approach to building modern web
applications.
At its heart is
Turbo, which gives you
techniques for
bringing the speed
of a single-page
application without writing
a lick of JavaScript.
This screencast
will focus primarily
on showing how Turbo works.
But most applications
will eventually
need a few sprinkles
of JavaScript
to get the fidelity they need.
And for that purpose,
we have Stimulus.
It's a modest JavaScript
framework for the HTML
you already have.
I'll briefly show how this
works to supplement the Turbo
demonstration.
Finally, we have Strada, which
provides bridge tooling for how
the web and native parts of a
mobile hybrid application built
with Hotwire talk to each other.
We're still working on
polishing Strada for release,
so this screencast
will not cover it.
Hotwire is what we've
used to implement
all of the front-end elements of
hey.com, the new email service
by Basecamp.
We're going to build a
chat application using
vanilla Rails plus the
Hotwire Rails integration
gem, which includes the full
setup for Turbo and Stimulus.
The Hotwire install
command will turn
on Redis backing for handling
WebSockets with Action Cable
at the import map
needed for autoloading
Stimulus controllers
and a few other tweaks.
The application will use two
models, Room and Message.
One Room has many Messages.
We'll use a full scaffold
for the Room model
to give us the basic
editing interface,
but only use the model
generator for Message
since it needs much less.
We're going to connect
Room and Message together
without using any
of Hotwire to start.
This will give us
a foundation flow
for an admittedly cumbersome
chat application which
we can then use to level
up with Hotwire techniques
one at a time.
For Messages, we'll
have just two actions.
New to render the form
to create a message,
and Create to handle
the form submission.
Note that we are also adding a
partial template to encapsulate
rendering of the Message.
This partial is
then rendered when
showing the Room relying
on the conventional naming
to tie them together.
This is all just standard,
one-on-one rail stuff,
but let's start the
server and try it out.
Hello, Rails.
Here's our interface
to create a new Room.
Then we create a couple of
new Messages for that Room.
Yes, technically a
chat system, but not
exactly a very dynamic
or appealing one.
So let's introduce our
first Turbo feature, Frames.
Turbo Frames decompose pages
into independent contexts,
which can be lazy-loaded
and scope interaction.
So when you follow a
link or submit a form,
only the content of
the Frame changes
rather than the entire page.
This allows you to keep the
state of the rest of the page
from changing, making the
app feel more responsive.
To be able to easily
see how the Frames work,
we'll call them out
with a blue border.
Now let's wrap the Room
name and the ability
to edit it inside a Frame.
The Turbo Frame tag goes around
both the initial display,
including the Edit link, and
the part of the Edit page
we want to appear
within the Frame.
We see our Frame
wrapped in blue.
And when clicking the Edit link,
the form from the Edit screen
is presented within.
And upon submission,
it's replaced again
with just a display.
If we go straight to the
full page editing screen,
we can see it has both a
header and navigation links,
parts we were emitting
from the Frame.
Note that if we try to click
a link within the Frame that
goes somewhere without
a matching Frame,
nothing happens.
We can solve this by adding
a Data Turbo Frame attribute
that points to underscore top
to break out of the Frame,
just like traditional
HTML frames.
Now the back link
works and the Frame
scopes the Edit Display loop.
Then let's add the
New Message link
into an inline but
lazy-loaded Turbo Frame
tag that also,
just for starters,
acts on the whole page.
This Frame will be loaded
right after the page displays,
hitting the New
Message Controller
action we made earlier.
Like with Edit, we wrap the
relevant segment in a Frame tag
with a matching ID, which
is how Turbo knows how
to plug out the right Frame.
You can now see
two requests when
we load the room--
one for the page, one
for the lazy-loader frame.
Let's try to add a message.
It works!
But this only demonstrates
that the Frame was lazy-loaded.
Right now, we're
resetting the whole page
upon submission of
the New Message form.
Whereas with the
Room Name Frame,
you can edit and
submit without changing
the rest of the page state,
a real independent context.
You can see how the
Frame replacement happens
by inspecting the
response to edit.
Rails knows when a request
is coming from a Frame,
so it won't render
the layout, but that's
just a nice-to-have
have optimization.
Turbo will plug out
just the matching Frame,
regardless of whether the
response is optimized or not.
As you can see here, the
header and links are ignored.
Now let's turn to Turbo Streams.
They deliver page changes
over WebSocket or in response
to form submissions using
just HTML and a set of CRUD
like action tags.
The tags let you
append or prepend
to replace and remove any target
dom element from the existing
page.
They're strictly limited
to dom changes, though.
No direct JavaScript invocation.
If you need more
than dom change,
connect a Stimulus controller.
We will add a Turbo stream
response to the message
creation action such that we can
add the new Message to the Room
page without replacing
the whole page.
This template invokes
the Append action
with the dom ID of
the target container,
and either a full set of partial
rendering options or just
a record we wish to render
which conforms to the naming
conventions for
matching to a partial.
Now we can add
Messages to the page
without resetting it completely.
The Edit Name form can stay
open while we're doing this,
because new Messages are added
directly to the Messages div.
The Turbo Stream HTML is
rendered directly in response
to the form submission, and
Turbo knows from the MIME type
to process it automatically.
But notice the input
field isn't cleared.
We can fix that by adding
a Stimulus controller.
The new Rail
Stimulus integration
gem ships with an autoloader
for you controllers.
This is done with an import map
supported by es-module-shim,
and the unprocessed
ES6 controller
code that's loaded by the
browser directly via ESM.
You can of course continue to
use Stimulus with your existing
JavaScript bundler
and transpiler,
but this gives you a
taste of how far we're
able to get with native
browser controls now.
The Stimulus controller
we're going to add
will be a dead simple
way to reset the form
after creating a new Message.
It has just one
method, Reset, which
we will call when Turbo is done
submitting the form via Fetch.
The only novel part here
compared to existing Stimulus
is how we'll audit load
the controller at runtime
using ESM when the data
controller attribute is spotted
in the dom.
Reload to pick up the
new Stimulus controller.
Then let's add another Message.
And voila!
The form is reset and the
Message added dynamically.
But how interesting is a
chat app where you're just
talking to yourself?
Let's start a conversation
with another window.
You'll see that new
Messages are only added live
to the originator's window.
On the other side, we have to
reload to see what's been said.
Let's fix that.
The first thing we'll do
is establish a WebSocket
connection to the
stream identified
by the Room we're in.
This is done with a
Turbo Stream From tag
using a tamper-safe signed
identifier in the view.
You can see the connection has
been made to the Turbo Stream's
channel running over action
cable from the inclusion
of this text.
Let's send new
Messages to this Stream
by adding a broadcast call
to the Message creation.
This method call mirrors
what we're already
doing in the Turbo Stream
template, just over WebSocket
now.
Now we can add a new message and
see it appear in both windows.
But you'll see the
originator sees double,
because the Turbo Stream
response from the form
submission is still in place.
On the other side, we
can inspect the traffic
on the action cable
WebSocket and see
that the very same
message partial is
being used to render the
update over there, wrapped
with the same Turbo Stream tag.
There, we don't have
a form submission,
so the message is
only added once.
Let's fix the double
vision by removing
the Turbo Stream returned
in response to the form
submission.
For now, we'll just
leave a note to document
the dead end this will be
without a cable connection.
And now all updates
are sent only once.
We can also Turbo Stream
deleting messages.
We'll add a similar
model call back
and destroy the triggers
that remove broadcasts
sent to the same Stream.
But instead of
adding in a UI, let's
try to invoke this
flow from the console.
Here, you can see the
destroy carried out,
didn't spot the broadcast sent
using the Turbo Stream Remove
Action tag.
I call it again.
Another line disappears
from both browser windows.
You can also create
a new message
straight from the console.
And here, you'll see the same
Turbo Stream Append action
with the same partial template,
as with all the other examples.
Finally, we can add
a replace to happen
with the message is updated.
This follows the same flow
and completes the life
cycle of callbacks
you'd normally
respond to with Stream updates.
Let's invoke from the console.
Whoops!
We have to reload
our console instance
to pick up the code change.
And here we go.
The last message in the
chat has been updated.
But it can be even simpler.
If you want a full menu of
basic lifecycle updates,
you can replace
these three callbacks
with a single broadcast
to declaration.
You'll notice that this setup
even uses async broadcasts.
Surrendering is done out
of band by a job queue.
Let's add this
shortened form directly
to changing the room as well.
Since the room
identifies the Stream,
we could just use broadcasts.
Then we'll extract the room
display as its own partial
so it'll match the conventions
assumed by the callback,
render it in line,
and give it a dom ID.
Now you can edit the
name in one window
and instantly see it
updated in the other.
So that's Hotwire, an
alternative approach
to building modern web
applications without using
much JavaScript by sending HTML
instead of JSON over the wire.
We get to keep all our template
rendering on the server, which
means writing more
of our application
in our favorite
programming languages.
Now let's have a quick look at
how these techniques are used
in a real-life application.
We at Basecamp launched our
new email service, hey.com,
this past summer.
And within 40 kilobytes
of compressed JavaScript,
we're able to deliver a full
featured modern and successful
email app, complete with
native applications across all
the major platforms, powered
by the same majestic monolith
running on Hotwire.
HEY uses lazy-loaded
Turbo Frames
to fetch the Reply Later
and Set Aside trays
at the bottom of the inbox.
These trays change far less
frequently than the inbox
itself, so they're
excellent candidates
to run on a different
caching schedule.
They're loaded as soon as
the initial page is loaded,
but will 302 when
already cached when
you hit them a second time.
We also use lazy-loaded
Turbo Frames for menus,
but these are not loaded
until you access them
for the first time.
Once loaded, you'll be
hitting that browser cache
on subsequent visits.
This technique is used for both
the HEY menu and the ME menu,
both triggered by the
detailed summary tag pairing.
The Topic page uses even more
lazy-loaded Turbo Frames,
since the basic page is shared
amongst all users on a company
account for maximum
cache efficiency
and all per-user specialization
is therefore done with Frames.
But let's focus just on
the Toolbar Frame, which
is where you start a new reply.
When Reply Now is
pressed, that Frame
is replaced with a Frame
response of the New Message
page.
If we delete that response,
we again replace the Frame
with the toolbar.
Barely any JavaScript needed
for the whole interaction.
Now let's go back and have
a look at the Screener.
The Screener actions
are synchronized
between browser windows,
just like in our chat demo
application.
Although here, updates
needed for different pages
require unique responses.
So we simply remove
the pending email
from the Screener upon
clicking the button,
but we update both
the Screener button
and reveal the Screened
in email in the inbox
on the other screen.
You'll see we're still using
a slightly older Turbo Stream
syntax here, with a
template tag as the head,
but we'll be changing to
the latest API shortly.
Lastly, you'll see how Frames
and Streams can interact.
When you set aside an email,
we remove it from the inbox,
then add it to the Set Aside
tray in both windows at once.
The removal in the Acting
window is done via Turbo Stream
response to the action,
and then both windows
have the Set Aside email added
to the tray over WebSocket.
You can check out
all the ways we've
used Hotwire to build
HEY by signing up
for free trial account.
All the JavaScript is
available with source maps.
All the Turbo interactions
were sent in the clear,
so there's plenty to
learn from, and we
welcome you to borrow or steal
our Stimulus controllers.
I hope you've enjoyed this
quick tour of Hotwire,
and Turbo in particular.
Please help us further
develop all the frameworks
as open source.
Thanks.